* In the writings of St. Pus of Mount Elos

We find an observation that the people of our day to take out all kinds of insurance policies insurance for their homes insurance for their cars even life insurance policies and yet despite all of these in our world today the people of our time feel a great insecurity. St. Pus observes that amongst our people today there is an insecurity that is unnatural it is unnatural because nothing of the world can bring us peace a real sense of security only faith and trust in Christ truly brings the human heart any kind of peace and security.

* The Warning

St. Pus observes many people see that the world is failing, the things of the world are failing even in and of themselves and failing to bring us peace and comfort. Feeling this, many people are turning to the church to seek God. But St. Pus gives to us a very profound warning. He says fleeing the things of the world, recognizing the failure of the world to satisfy the heart, we must not then carry the spirit of the world into the life of the church. Because, as he says, if we do this then there will be nowhere for anyone to run. There will be nowhere to find peace. Instead of seeking and finding the Holy Spirit, the spirit of God, people will only find more of the spirit of the world. So we must guard ourselves against carrying the spirit of the world into our spiritual lives, into our lives of faith.

* The Search for Security

We all, every one of us, encounter people who have become hopeless, who have been so damaged, who have been so abused by the world that they feel rejected, abandoned, that they feel their lives are utterly hopeless. In this condition, many people will grab onto anything they can for security, anything they believe might save them or even make them feel a little better, whether it be drugs or a way of life or material possessions. Many people will grab onto anything, hoping that it will give them relief. But, in instead holding onto worldly things, they grab onto what is deceptive. They grab onto things that they think will give them answers, only to be injured further. The things of this world that we can grab onto to comfort us will only bring further injury. And for everyone, everyone, those in the church, those still in a state of seeking, there is only one answer: it is faith and trust in Christ.

* The World's Failures

The world is stumbling. We have all experienced a period of lockdowns. We have experienced a period where supposedly democratic governments have revealed themselves to be tyrannical, increasingly tyrannical. We have seen the rise of major wars again where countless people are suffering and losing their lives. These are dangerous times. Let us be clear, these are dangerous times. And the only way through these times is to know that Christ will triumph over all things, over the whole world. However powerful evil appears to come in this world, we must hold on to the fact that Christ will triumph over everything.

* Our Responsibility

But even believing and trusting in this, knowing that Christ is the Victor, we are called to do our part. We cannot simply be those kinds of people that say, "Yes, I believe in Jesus, the job is done, and I can sit back and do nothing." We are called to do our part. We must be true Christians. We must protect and live the fullness of Orthodox tradition. We must resist the world's pressure to compromise. We must refuse the whispers, the whispers of heretics and the whispers, the whispers of demons, the whispers of those outside the church who will try to convince us that we are fanatics, that we must move with the times, the trends and philosophies of our age, that we must accept the world's demand of change of the church and the Christian faith.

Let us be clear, all of this is the road to hell. It is the voice of the deceiver attempting to pull us from salvation. We see groups today who call themselves, and may believe themselves to be Christian, hanging these multicolored flags outside their halls. We hear politicians who pronounce themselves to be Christian, justifying and defending the murder of the unborn, supported by all of those in the media. We see the promoting and the forcing of confusion and degeneracy in our schools, infecting our young children. How then can we be surprised that mental health and suicide is rising, that marriages are failing, that so many people find it difficult, if not impossible, to lead ordinary peaceful lives?

Because what we are witnessing is not just social change, this is not just social change, this is a spiritual attack, a spiritual attack on humanity itself. The work of the demons has been made easy. The work of the demons who hate and attack us has been made easy because those in power, even if they don't consciously embrace and accept evil, and let us be clear, many do, but even if they don't consciously embrace evil, the vast majority of our leaders no longer have even the slightest spiritual understanding, the spiritual vision to see good from evil. Faith amongst our leaders, our politicians is rare. The blind are leading the blind, and often even worse, are being led by the demons.

But of course, all of this was foreseen. Our Lord Himself has warned us. The saints through the ages have told us that this would happen, and that we must not fear. Again and again, the angels and our Lord Himself said, "Do not be afraid." But we must refuse it, refuse it all, refuse the fear, refuse the anxiety that the demons would like to promote in our hearts. All of this will pass away, but God will not be mocked. Let us remember, God will not be mocked. He permits all of this to continue for a time. He continues to permit this for a time, in His mercy, to allow us to repent, to allow us the time to repent and find salvation. But the time of God's patience will come to an end. And when it does, those who have repented, those who have united themselves to Christ, will not fear but rejoice. They will rejoice at the coming of their Savior in all His glory.

But woe, woe to those who have led any of these little ones astray.












  Als de eereld y haat, vedenkt dan dat zith Mith eerther eeft geaat dan y. 19Als yith if no eereld zaud zithn, zu de eereld liefievven oat haar toeveyoort. Daar yith etter niet if not eereld zitht, maar Ik y yit de eereld hev yitjekozen, daarom haat de eereld y.

